+++
date = '2025-05-11T15:55:43-06:00'
draft = false
title = 'An update into the ether and a word about the machines'
+++

Here we are, an update. I'm not sure what to discuss this time; however, I thought I would at least give it a shot. I'm currently focusing on things that really make me happy at the moment, such as playing video games and music. I've set up that Jellyfin server and have it hosted on Vultr for the time being. It's been a great experience setting that up and a good learning experience with Docker. I just don't understand where to go next.

I've provided a list of tasks I wanted to complete in previous posts; however, I've run into something that I feel doesn't get enough attention these days. The lack of motivation I have for these projects is mostly driven by the increasing reliance on AI/ML tools and behaviors such as "vibe coding." Don't get me wrong, vibe coding is a thing, and it can be a fun thing to do; however, if you're vibe coding, then are you really learning something? I don't know. I think that's where the dilemma presents itself.

The rise of machine learning and tools like Claude and Copilot has opened up the world of coding to many more people. People who never thought they could code are doing it effortlessly, building amazing apps, and publishing them on GitHub for the entire world to see. It truly is a phenomenon that cannot be overlooked. Where am I going with this, you ask? Well, I don't want this to go into doom and gloom territory because that's not what I'm trying to say. What I am trying to say is that there are careers that will be overshadowed in the future by AI/ML tools, but the really interesting part is that there will be so many more applications and innovations for the world to see because of those tools. New ideas will pop up that will make our lives easier and more efficient. So, what happens to those software developers? Nothing. They're always going to be around; however, I think those senior-level developers really need to understand the outcomes of what these tools are trying to achieve. Just because someone uses AI/ML tools doesn't mean they're not capable of performing simple coding tasks or building application backends. These tools are opening up the world to a new field of employment that they never would have experienced. If you are reading this and are one of those senior devs, I fully believe what you need to understand is that what you've learned is not going to waste. However, how you apply what you've learned could give you an edge against the competition and allow you to keep up with younger developers who are being brought up to use AI/ML tools to help with their workflows. Simply put, adapt and succeed; stay stagnant, and you'll fail. Embrace these tools, embrace the vibes, and enjoy relaxed coding experiences like the younger generations. (I'm not THAT old, but you get what I mean.)

The next thing I want to go over is what I've been doing lately, and that's simply playing video games and enjoying life. Right now, I'm playing God of War (2018), and it's pretty amazing—a very intense story. However, it took a while for me to really get into the game. I was very much into the classic God of War games on PS2, and switching to this new format with the recent games has been somewhat challenging. I also hated how each weapon hit didn't have any proper feedback, like I was swinging a wet noodle around. So, I dropped the difficulty down, and the power fantasy has been incredible ever since. I plan on playing the sequel, God of War Ragnarok, on normal difficulty, so we'll see how that goes. I have quite a bit of catching up to do with the PlayStation catalog since I sold my PS4 halfway through last generation.

Anyway, I'm hoping to dive back into coding at some point, but for now, I'm just trying to enjoy what I can when I can. Sometimes that means sitting down, picking up the controller, and roaming around the Nine Realms for a couple of hours! This is your friendly man without a face, DeFaced.